#summary The design document for our game

= Introduction =

The following lines are a description of the game we want to make.
(Inspired by http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_design_document)

If you want to know what to implement next have a read and conclude what is missing or come up with a cool new feature.
Feel free to edit this page.


= Design Document =

==Story==

The Story is simple: The players team of misfits has been hired by an evil villian to kidnap the princess.

==Characters==

Brute - A strong but slow guy.
Widow - A beautiful and selfish hottie that enchants the enemy easily.
Dark knight - A good and quick fighter.
Goblin - An immigrant worker used for hard labor by the above team.

==Level/environment design==

For the first prototype one level is enough!

Each level represents a kingdom, with housing facilities and other stuff that the players can destroy.

==Gameplay==

The goal is to reach the carriage at the end of the level with the goblin carring the princess. The goblin moves down by its own.
Enemies will try to carry the princess back to the castle.
At the end of each level a ranking of how well the player has been doing will be given.

==Sound and Music==
Can be added later on. It will fit the kindom you are in.

==User Interface, Game Controls==
1-4 local players
Splitscreen functionality in the event that a player distances himself to much from the princess.

==Ideas==
===Ranking example===

||Category||||Rank||
||Time||2:12||S||
||Destruction||80%||B||
||Gold||120||A||

and so on...