= PAY ATTENTION TO PRIORITY !!! DELETE DONE WORK !!!  =
----
= in Progress =

= TODO =

  == Beta (29.06) ==

  == pre Final (06.07) ==
  # shrink animation of push pull -> necessary because we cant shrink so much, because run into problems with float precision. --> pascal
  # make difference for push pull with color --> pascal
  # REPLACE or ADD better fitting FREE sounds and music --> john
  # savegames and replaying of levels (for better score) --> amauri  
     * NOTDONE! you cant show all this stuff in start menu is very ugly -> seperate menu after press play for choosing level and showing statistics...like explained thuersday
  # level with torch switch -> *???*
    * one torch lighting opens door to ingredient (with instruction)
    * one torch extinguish opens door to ingredient
  # level with icecle (only pass enemy by killing it with icecle)  -> *???*
  # level textures -> Pascal
    * vulcano
    * one texture for ever switch type
    * rope or chain
  # gray out background in casting mode -> john
  # animation for no gravity -> Pascal
  # level transition -->all amauri
     # instruction screen for level and spells for a starting level

  # fix behavior if you reach last level -> show congratulation and finish screen, show credits and continue to main menu --> Amauri
     * Show which button to press, also add JUMP-Key (NOT ONLY ENTER)
  
  # give magican another wand and put every wand in one animation ->Pascal
  # more easier start levels!
  # check level 7 if the new door implementation works like expected with level idea --> I think its Johns Level --> Check it! ->John
  # warm/cold spell: better gravition physics --> please explain!!
  # track textures -> Pascal asks: As in mine cart tracks? Dont know you and John talked about tracks for moveable platforms, I only added this task.(christopher)  
  # effect/bug shadow creatures push created matter. is this wanted?

  # BUG: Castign in Facing Direction -> Marian
  # BUG: instruction window blend in positioning in level editor
  # planning for the first levels with instructions to learn game mechanic

== Final (13.07) ==
  # BUG: big blockades have an ugly bounding box

 === optional ===
  # you should move with moveable plattforms -->rounding problem?? (Also: while casting on the platform the player no longer moves with a platform)



== rejected To Dos ==
 * Implement different level bound behavior: Top, left, right are like bumping into an object while the bottom kills the player. -> This will be solved by placing impassable items at the left and right bounds so the player can't touch the. Also no platform will be put so high that the player can reach the top.

Nicht mehr so wichtig wegen Zeit:
  # spider: only moves in defined web area (in all directions) --> John
  # make magic influenceabel objects like push pull objects visible by color, unique texture or special effect->Pascal (I would draw another texture, is that fine with you guys?) solved by colorizing